So our text for today is Philippians chapter 3 and verse 14.
And here the Apostle Paul assures the Philippian congregation that he has not lost sight of the goal,
in spite of all the distressing things that he's dealing with.
He's keeping his mind on the big picture, the advancement of the good news, the hope that he has for the future.
Well, how can this help us?
Well, let's consider three things that Paul was dealing with during this time he was writing his letter to the Philippians
that could have diverted his focus and see what we can learn.
The first thing we'll consider is discouragement.
Well, why? Well, Paul, as we know, was under house arrest at the time.
He could not do what he wanted to do for Jehovah.
It's thought that when Paul wrote his letter to the Philippians,
he had been under house arrest for a year or more.
How discouraging this could have been for Paul.
Also, we remember during this time the Philippian congregation had sent a Paphroditus to Paul with a gift from the congregation.
Well, what happened? A Paphroditus was to go and encourage Paul,
but he ended up getting sick to the point of death and then got depressed.
So now rather than receiving help, Paul had to worry about and help a Paphroditus to recover and then deal with his depression,
then eventually send him back home, all while dealing with his own situation.
And finally, who knows the emotional ups and downs that Paul dealt with during his imprisonment?
We can imagine him getting reports of, I think your case is going to get heard soon.
You can leave soon and then, no, sorry, nothing's happening.
You're going to be here for a while.
Well, can you relate to Paul?
Many of our brothers and sisters are getting emotionally and physically distressed or fatigued due to this pandemic.
Some of them feel like they are in house arrest.
There seems to be no end in sight.
Sometimes it's like we take one step forward and two steps back.
We cannot do the things that we want to do for Jehovah.
What do we learn from Paul?
What did he do?
Let's look at Philippians chapter 1 and verse 12.
Where was his focus?
Philippians 1 and 12, he says,
Now I want you to know, brothers, that my situation has actually turned out for the advancement of the good news.
He focused on advancing the good news, the big picture.
He talks about how his situation was giving a witness to the prison guards.
How his endurance in verse 14 was encouraging the congregation.
He was not in the situation.
He wanted to be in, but he focused on the positive.
And see, we need to do the same.
Keep our focus on the big picture.
The increases that we hear about, the incredible experiences that we're hearing that shows
that Jehovah's people are continuing to advance kingdom interest even during these difficult times.
Now we have heard so many encouraging reports that remind us that Jehovah has been with his people
and with his organization during this last period of time, during this pandemic.
So that his organization not only continued functioning, but flourishing.
Should we lose trust now that Jehovah will not carry us the rest of the way?
A good reminder from Paul.
What else was Paul dealing with?
Well, our second point is that he was dealing with pain of heart due to those who had left the truth.
Look at chapter 3 and verse 18.
Philippians 3, 18, he says,
He says, for there are many, I used to mention them often, but now I mention them also with weeping
who are walking as enemies of the torture stake of the Christ.
Yes, some who used to be close to Paul had abandoned the truth.
This distressed him.
It made him weep.
Well, can we relate?
Well, yes.
Some among us have very close family members or friends who have left the truth and are now disfellowshipped.
And that's painful.
Now, when emotions are running high, it can cause us to question decisions made by the elders,
or maybe to struggle with the direction on how to deal with disfellowshipped ones.
It tests our faith.
You see, when somebody is heading into a wayward way, of course, we all do what we can to help.
The friends, family, the elders, everybody,
but when someone has reached the point where they have to be disfellowshipped,
Jehovah now, in effect, says, I have this now, leave this to me.
And what do we have to do?
We have to back off and trust Jehovah in his organization.
Now, we can illustrate this way.
You could picture maybe you're having a nice family meal with your family and during the evening,
suddenly your uncle grabs his chest and falls over on the floor unconscious.
Well, what happens?
Well, we all jump into action.
Somebody starts doing CPR.
Somebody calls the paramedics.
The rest of us try to do it.
We can.
But what do we do when the paramedics arrive?
We step out of the way and we leave our loved one in the hands of those who have been trained to handle medical emergencies.
Now, would we ever think of pulling the paramedics off of our uncle and insisting that, no, we're going to care for him ourselves?
No.
We know by doing that, we will greatly reduce the chances of him surviving.
See, we leave it to the paramedics and we hope for the best.
Now, sometimes the patient recovers.
Sadly, sometimes the patient does not recover.
But yet, we know that he has a much better chance of recovering at the hands of the trained paramedics.
And see the same is true with our loved ones who leave Jehovah.
At first, we try to do what we can, but then we step back and leave it to the paramedics, if you will.
The spiritually qualified men who are trained to offer necessary spiritual assistance.
That's Jehovah's arrangement.
But it doesn't mean that it's easy.
It's painful.
It hurts.
It's similar watching those events unfold with your uncle there.
It's emotional.
It hurts.
Well, what do we do to get through it?
Well, the same thing Paul did.
Look back.
You notice there in verse chapter 3, verse 18, it says that this just stressed him so much that he wept.
But where was his focus?
Look at verse 20.
But our citizenship exists in the heavens.
And we are eagerly waiting for a savior from there, the Lord Jesus Christ.
Yes, he stayed focused on his hope for the future.
The third thing we'll discuss at Paul was dealing with was concerns about potential divisions in the congregation.
Notice what he says as recorded in Philippians chapter 2 and verse 2.
He says, make my joy full by being of the same mind and having the same love, being completely united, having the one thought in mind.
Unity.
See, Paul was concerned with divisions cropping up in the congregation.
Unity was the theme of his letter to the Ephesians.
It was also featured in his letter to the Colossians, all of which were written around the same time as the Philippian letter, the letter to the Philippian congregation.
Why was Paul so concerned about unity?
Well, because highly charged issues were circulating at the time, at one of which that wouldn't go away was the issue of circumcision.
Some were insisting that everybody must get circumcised.
Others were saying, no, it's a personal choice whether you do or not.
False teachers were using this issue to discredit Paul's position as an apostle.
Now, the governing body had made their position on this subject very clear.
Well, what did Paul do?
Well, he trusted Jehovah and Jehovah's representatives and he supported the decision.
Well, do we see similar situations today?
Yes, there are many highly charged issues that exist that have the potential of creating divisions in the congregation.
We must never let that happen.
It's a test of our faith.
Well, what did Paul do?
We'll notice a few verses down in verse 5.
He says, keep this mental attitude in you that was also in Christ Jesus.
He focused on the Christ, on the big picture.
And see, we need to do the same.
Focus on Jesus.
Trust that Christ is leading this organization.
Trust those whom Jehovah and Jesus trust to take the lead.
Keep our focus on the goal and the big picture.
And we think about it. We appreciate so much.
All that Jehovah and his organization have done for us.
And isn't it true? We see clearly how the direction that we've received over the years indicates that Jehovah is clearly with his people, with his organization, with the governing body, those who are taking the lead, and that Christ is firmly in control.
Why would we question the direction we're getting now?
Yes, our scripture text provides very good lessons to help us navigate troubling and distressing times.
Philippians 3.14, I'm pressing on to the goal for the prize.
And we need to have the same attitude whether our prize is everlasting life in the heavens or here on earth.
And like when Paul wrote the Philippians, there are many things that can divert our focus today.
And focusing on these troublesome situations can cause us to become anxious, bitter, depressed, angry, or distracted.
So may we follow Paul's example and keep our eyes fixed firmly on the big picture.
The goal that's set before us.
May we stay focused on the incredible privilege we have to be part of this organization and what Jehovah is doing in these last days.
The undeniable evidence that Jehovah's blessing is people, blessing those who are taking the lead that Christ is firmly in control.
Stay focused on the unfolding of Bible prophecy, our beautiful hope that we have for the future.
And if we do, like Paul, one day we will not need to press on any longer to the goal because we will be living it.